## Frog
- [x] Shed

## Morning 
- [x] Let dogs pee
- [x] Drink stimulant and take medication
- [x] Feed cats
- [x] Feed dogs
- [x] Fill animal waters
- [x] Fill water filter
- [x] Take dogs out 
- [x] Give dogs dental treats
- [x] Shower
- [x] Lotion
- [x] Deo
- [x] Brush teeth
- [x] Plan day

## Work 
[[current - 139923 - SpsV2 -  Pipeline setup]]

## Workout
[[Physical Health/Exercise Log/2023/W19/2023-05-08, Monday|2023-05-08, Monday]]

## Whenever
- [x] Bird seeds

## Evening
- [x] CanPay spin
- [ ] Plan tomorrow 
- [x] Shower 
- [ ] Lotion 
- [ ] Deo 
- [ ] Brush Teeth 

## Dinner

## Notes 

##### [[SMART]] Meeting
- https://community.smartrecovery.org/community/calendar.php 
- I feel like I wasted a lot of time trying to get my family sober when they didn't want to
- [[Unconditional Other-Acceptance]]
- [[Unconditional Life-Acceptance]]
- [[Unconditional Self-Acceptance]]

##### Continuous 

- inspiration


The Complete Guide to Planning Your Day
The 10-minute productivity practice for achieving more in work and life

Productivity

Illustration by Yin Weihung
Most of us understand the value of planning and preparation. A sports match without a game plan means fumbling on the field. A big event without all the details in place leads to chaos.

Despite this knowledge, we often fail to prioritize planning where it matters most: our daily lives. Getting started in the morning without a clear plan sets us up to fail.

We set goals on the order of seasons and years, but it’s what we do each day — the habits we adopt, the tasks we complete, and the things we prioritize — that compound over time into success or failure. A few aimless days each month can help us reset and find balance. But when our days without intention exceed our days with purpose, we end up missing our goals and wondering where all the time went.

The best defense against hectic yet unproductive days is a good offense in the form of a daily planning ritual. This article will walk you through how to plan your days for calmer, more focused productivity that brings you closer to your goals. While planning your day should only take 10-15 minutes, the underlying strategies to meaningfully craft a day with intention are worth exploring in full.

Make regular planning a habit
James Clear, the best-selling author of Atomic Habits, thinks motivation is overrated: “Stop waiting for motivation or inspiration to strike you and set a schedule for your habits”. Motivation flows from action, not the other way around.

That’s why having a daily planning ritual is so important. Some mornings we feel motivated to seize the day and create a to-do list that reflects our big ambitions. But those days are the exception. We need to get things done even when we wake up tired and disengaged, wanting to return to bed or longing for Friday at 5 PM. Those are the days it’s most important to approach the day with a plan.

Start by setting an alarm for your daily planning session at the same time every day — either during a work shutdown ritual or first thing in the morning. To make building the habit easier, bundle your new daily planning session with an existing habit like drinking your morning coffee or listening to music.


how to plan your day morning and evening routine ritual
Bundle a daily planning session with an existing habit.

Use a to-do list app like Todoist to set a recurring task to plan your day, or simply set an alarm on your phone.


how to plan your day quick add task
Use a to-do list app like Todoist to set a recurring task to plan your day.

Habits are easier to build when we see the results of our dedication right away. Luckily, planning your day is a habit that pays off immediately. You’ll feel more organized, focused, and motivated with a plan for the hours ahead. Over time, planning your day will become second-nature.

Note

Having trouble turning daily planning into a reflexive habit? Don’t break the chain! Keep your daily planning habit going on the weekends, even if you’re aiming for a laid back day. Add errands, a movie, or dinner dates to your daily to-do list on a Saturday or Sunday to make real space on your schedule for relaxation, leisure, and side projects.

Build your to-do list around your goals
Making a habit of your daily planning is one thing. Ensuring that your plan is actually inching you towards your bigger goals is another. Use your daily planning session to make sure your daily tasks are aligned with your long-term objectives. Here are a few steps to get you there:

Step one: Break down your big goals
Break down your goals into daily tasks. For example, you can’t add “Get in shape” to your daily to-do list, but you can add tasks like “spend 30 minutes on my Peloton” or “go for a nightly stroll”. Review your personal and professional goals when you sit down to plan your day, and add tasks that get you closer to both.


long term goals and potential tasks
Break down long-term goals into daily tasks.

If you’re struggling to create realistic daily to-do lists that reflect all of your goals, you may have too many. Overextending yourself isn’t only tiring, it also means you’re unlikely to make meaningful progress in all these areas. Complete a commitment inventory to hone in on a smaller number of goals that are most important to you. As a general rule, avoid having more than 5 big goals at once, and consider a mix of short-term and long-term goals.

Step two: Look at your week as a whole
Planning your day starts with considering your week as a whole. You likely have multiple goals, an array of potential tasks to accomplish them, and only so many hours in the day. That’s okay. While some goals benefit from daily action, working towards others a few times a week can create momentum. Maybe you exercise Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays. On some days, you may want to task batch and focus only on to-dos related to one specific professional goal. Alternatively, you might stack your personal goal tasks on the weekend. Take the time on Sunday evening or Monday morning to zoom out and lightly sketch your week so you know which goals you’ll focus on and on which days. Save the details for your daily planning sessions.